---
layout: post
date: 2024-01-21
---

A difficult week
================

[[Hieu's personal blog index](./index)]

It's a cloudy Sunday afternoon, and I find myself in my office looking outside a
large window, feeling a strange urge to write something. Now I do have another
[blog post](./on_cute_layouts) to finish, and I do not plan to abandon it, but
the urge to write is just so strong I decided to create this entry to write down
what is in my mind.

The writing urge I am feeling is reminiscent; the last time I vividly remember
felling such an urge was in 2017, and then it just silently disappeared as I
entered my communication anxiety. That said, there is a large gap between
feeling the urge to write and being able to get into a writing flow that
produces something nice to read. Still, feeling the urge is progress. So here I
am, writing.

As writing goes, I need a topic. Actually, unless I am [Haruki
Murakami](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Haruki_Murakami), I need a topic. The
topic today is my family.

We just survived a difficult week, and despite feeling exhausted about
everything we went through, I feel incredibly optimistic about our future, so I
write to celebrate. Last Tuesday, my son woke up on the floor next to his bed,
which is covered in his own vomit. That marked our 14 months boy's first stomach
flu. The next day came his diarrhea, and eventually a fever that lasted until
Friday. On Thursday, when he was 103.9F, my wife and I were so worried we took
him to urgent care.  Fortunately, the doctor assured us everything is fine and
sent us home, and indeed, the next day his fever was gone. The unfortunate part
is that his flu spread into my wife and me, so now both of us must care for
ourselves, all while helping our baby recover.

Despite feeling super exhausted at times, I am incredibly happy to think of my
sweet family. During the week, while caring for my son, I kept hearing a
cacophonous noise that made me very tired. But with some effort to focus myself
on my wife and son, I was able to keep myself calm and sane enough to move pass
the difficult hours.

I now realize that I have essentially failed to express my feelings with the
words above. For whatever reasons, the words here are just not painting the
vision I wanted to show. Not the best execution, or perhaps my writing flow has
not come back yet. Anyhow, that is for an abrupt end, and I am going back to what
I was doing before I started writing.

This post is simply an appreciation that I hope to deliver to my wife and son.
I thank them for being the sweethearts that kept me plowing through the last few
difficult days.
