---
layout: post
title: "Today, I start writing (again)"
date: 2023-11-27
---


# Today, I start writing (again)

## Overcoming my fear of writing
I fear writing. Despite having written quite a lot in the past and having found
comfort doing so, I now fear writing. It feels strange and sad like losing
myself to admit such a fear, but it is an important first step to a cure.

I used to answer questions on Quora
[[1](https://www.quora.com/profile/Hieu-Pham-20)], and used to feel generally
positive about my answers. When I meet a stranger, I would show them one of my
Quora answers, give them a TL;DR, or just talk about the topic and content of an
answer without mentioning it is a Quora answer, and before I realized it, we
have been down into a good conversation.

It feels sad losing this ability. As mush as writing helped me think and speak
more coherently, not writing has made my thoughts cluttered and my speech
awkward. These days, whenever I must write something, I pause very often. I
would immediately check if my choice of words is awkward (they often are), if my
flow is fluent (it often is not), or if my grammar is correct (it's often
wrong). (See, the previous sentence took multiple revisions, and read very awkward).

Things are even worse when I speak. Before I finish a sentence, I would start to
panic whether I have cluttered something nobody understands. While speaking, I
would watch my listener to check if they are showing signs of irritation listing
to me. And while I watch them in fear, an internal voice would start questioning
me if I really had to speak so much; could I have expressed my ideas in much
fewer words and hence, have I been annoying my listeners, etc.

These noisy voices break my mental state of writing or speaking. The breakage in
turn worsens my words and speeche, and eventually makes me lose all confident in
expressing myself.

Today, I start curing these fears by starting this personal blog.

## My first entry
As writing goes, I *might* need a topic to write about. (see, I just ended my
sentence with a proposition -- what an achievement!) I will write the entry about
how to technically start a blog.

To me, the most important first step is to choose a platform. The platform
should be simple, even minimalistic, ideally like E.B. White's typewritter and
ashtray in *"On Writing Well"*
[[2](https://www.amazon.com/Writing-Well-Classic-Guide-Nonfiction/dp/0060891548)].
But I also want the platform to be rich enough so that eventually I can write on
topics I have not intended today, perhaps maths, machine learning, chess,
whiskey, or Japanese literature.

When searching for a platform to write, being minimalistic is a nice constraint,
as it leaves me with very few options. This blog post is written in `markdown`,
which in my opinion is as simple as it can get.

Using VsCode, I can write locally on my half of my laptop screen and immediately
seeing the result rendered on the other half, and then I can commit it to my
[github.io](https://hyhieu.github.io) using simple `git` commands.

I have also tried to write `LaTeX` in `markdown`, and at least my VsCode can
render them. If I ever want to publish blog entries with math formulae, which I
might soon, it will be a simple plug-and-play problem, rather than a possible
vs. impossible one. For now, let me just try to see the following simple line
can just render:
$$
(x + y)^2 = x^2 + 2xy + y^2
$$
If it does not render on my browser or my phone, it's just fine. I will come
back to this later. At least, `markdown` is an improvement in terms of rendering
ability compared to [Paul Graham's
essays](http://www.paulgraham.com/articles.html) which I have enjoyed reading.

## Conclusion
There goes my first blog entry. One day, may I read these lines and realize how
awkward they are. But now, for my own goodness, they should go public. This is not
because I am confident these lines are good, but I am proud that I have overcome
this very primal fear to just write something.
